			      EE 109  - Fall 2020
			 Lab 9 - Serial Communications

Edit the document below to fill in your answers to the review problems at the
end of the assignment web page.


1. (1 points) Briefly explain why a common GND signal is needed between
transmitter and receiver devices.

When wiring circuit devices, it is important to have a common GND signal because the signal
acts as a reference point for us to find the voltage across two points. Two devices require the same
low voltage as reference points so that the signals from TX and be understood in RX. In other words, since 
voltage is the potential difference between two points, this means that the voltmeter
needs a reference so that the other device also uses that signal as a reference point. If this is changed,
for example if the device receiving the data has no ground signal, then due to a conflict in reference point,
it will not receive data correrctly. 



2. (2 points) The baud rate (e.g. 9600 bps) is the rate at which 1's and 0's
are transmitted over the serial line. Briefly explain why the data rate (rate
at which useful	) is less than the baud rate even
with error-free transmission.

The baud rate is defined as the speed it transfers data in bits per second, in other words, it sends 1s and 0s 
for transmission; the data rate on the other hand is the rate in which an entire packet of data is transmitted. 
If that is the case, then the data rate should always be slower than the baud rate because the program cannot 
have one bit representing the entire data you want to transmit. Instead, the program needs to wait until it has
transmitte enough bits to be combined into one data. This explains why the data rate is slower, because it depends 
on the baud rate sending individual bits.   

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

			   Operation of the Circuit

Please record a video of you demonstrating the operation of the circuit that
shows the following aspects of the stopwatch operating.

1.  Show the splash screen at the start that shows your name.

2.  Up and Down buttons display list of at least 10 messages

3.  Message list wraps around at top and bottom

4.  Pressing the select button sends selected message

5.  Incoming message correctly displayed on second line

6.  You can transmit messages correctly to receiver on pin D11


Paste link to lab demonstration video below:

/*PLEASE READ: 
Due to a hardware issue, my tri-state buffer is broken and I cannot incorporate it in my circuit.
After speaking with professor Redekopp and professor Weber, they told me that the only solution to 
replace the tri-state buffer is to use a wir3e and connect the TX and RX port so that data directly transfers
to the two ports. I will demonstrate the lab a bit differently, however, my code should be the same as everyone
else's. The only difference is that I am not using a tri-state buffer. If there are any issues, please speak with
the professors. 
*/

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1iQqMLHee_Qdn6qAQXRsjcw-4xO0-DwvD/view?usp=sharing

