			      EE 109  - Fall 2020
		       Lab 3 - Arduino Input and Output

Edit the document below to fill in your answers to the review problems at the
end of the assignment web page.

1. (2 points) Suppose we relocated the three buttons from group B, bits 5-3 to
group D, bits 5-3, noting that the LED is still attached to group D, bit
2. Assuming appropriate DDRD values, consider the following method of turning
on the LED.

    PORTD = 0x04; // turn on the LED

Explain the problem with this approach and, in particular, what would stop
working after the execution of that line of code.


This method is written incorrectly, specifically, the correct notation should be
PORTD |= (0x04) or PORTD |= (1 << 2);. Writing the code this way will not result in 
the LED turning on. 





2. (2 points) Suppose Tommy Trojan used an oscilloscope to measure the time
from the instant a button was depressed to the instant the LED turned on.
Tommy found that if he did the test several times the amount of delay was never
the same but varied each time between 3 microseconds and 10
microseconds. Explain why the delays varied. Think about the timing of how
software executes.


There is a delay between the moment the button is pressed and when the LED turns on
is because due to the both the code. In my experiment, I experienced this as well, when 
I pressed the button and the LED does not immediately turn on. The reasoning is that
if we look at our code, we see that we programmed logical if-statements to detect which 
of the three buttons is pressed. The if-statement will first be directed to the function 
'checkInput',and then see which condition whithin the three if-statements is true, and will 
then execute the following code corresponding to PB3 being pressed. This then allows a signal 
to be sent to the port in which the LED is connected to, and send an output. The signal processes 
and code execution explains why there is a delay. The delay varies because the processor within
the arduino sometimes processes and executes the program faster, and sometimes slower.  



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

			   Operation of the Circuit

Please record a video of you demonstrating the operation of the circuit
that shows the output LED under these conditions:

1. Output after the 'U' button pressed.

2. Output after the 'S' button pressed.

3. Output after the 'C' button pressed.

4. Hold down the 'S' button for 10 seconds to show that there is a DASH length
delay between successive S characters as specified in the description on the
web page of the timing of Morse code characters.

Paste link to lab demonstration video below:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GUk9eATFN9WdGdhUMOGFGpRMzSADzEyy/view?usp=sharing

