			      EE 109  - Fall 2020
		    Lab 7 - Rotary Encoders and Interrupts

Edit the document below to fill in your answers to the review problems at the
end of the assignment web page.


1. (1 point) Briefly explain why it is undesirable to read the two encoder
input signals with two separate PINC statements.

Since the program reads the lines from top to bottom, if we read the PINC statements separately, 
then we are getting the two samples at different times. Since we want to know the exact state we're 
in, it is necessary to know which PINC value is 0 and which one is 1 so that the count value 
increases accurately and our encoder rotates smoothly. 

2. (1 point) Briefly explain why updating the LCD display in your ISR could
lead to undesirable behavior for this lab.

As stated in the lecture, an interrupt cannot disrupt another interrupt. When 
in the ISR function, there cannot be any interrupts that prevent the code from
accomplishing its task; if that is the case, then the program would lose information 
and delay the code so that the program will not function properly. That being said,
everytime we are in ISR notation, we shouldn't call codes or functions that can slow
down the completion or cause delay to the code.  


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

			   Operation of the Circuit

Please record a video of you demonstrating the operation of the circuit that
shows the following aspects of the rotary encoder and buzzer operating.

1.  Show the splash screen at the start that shows your name

2.  Show that the count number correctly increments and decrements smoothly as
you turn the rotary encoder.  It should not skip counts or bounce around to
different value.

3.  Show that the count value goes both positive and negative.

4.  Demontrate that a tone is played whenever the count is a multiple of eight.
Tones should increase in pitch each time, and show that when the count reaches
64 (or -64), it starts over with the tone for the 0 count.

5.  Show that the program is correctly reading the encoder inputs while a tone
is playing.  Do this by continuing to rotate the encoder while the tone is
playing and the LCD should update with the correct count once the tone is
finished.

Paste link to lab demonstration video below:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kaCAOEjLa2wxvZW7wQgAfbxdJq4V0tq9/view?usp=sharing

